Reflection for RailRoad Crossing

Michael Wang

The first design change I made was to add a second train and track in the opposite direction. I tackled this issue by having each train keep track of the other train’s position each time the other train moved. This allowed me to keep the gates lowered if the other train was in the range of approaching and leaving station. I didn’t quite like this design decision because if I had to add even more trains, then I would need a way for each train to keep track the other trains and this could lead to a lot of unnecessary logic. The second design change I made was to add a junction which allowed cars from the east road to go to the west road. I approached this change by checking to see if a car reached a certain point on the east road and then randomly making it going into the junction (about a ¼ chance). I changed the design so that instead of each car examining the car in front of them’s y position, the car examined the lead car. Each time a car entered the junction, the east road’s gate would stop observing the car and when the car exited the junction, the west road’s gate would observe this car and the previous car would also observe this car as long as the car is able to enter the road. The main challenge here was changing the observer of the car and gates and removing the previous observers of a car if the car entered the junction. I liked the challenge of removing the observers and then adding the observers to the new road’s gate along with the previous car, however, I didn’t like hardcoding all of the values for the map such as the y or x position that the car had to be in in order for it to enter or leave the junction as this made the program very unscalable. 

My design wouldn’t be able to scale up that well in terms of trains and cars. I would have to redesign how trains interacted with gates if there were more than two trains because I had each train keep track of the other train’s position. If there were more than 2 trains, then perhaps I would have to store a list of values of train positions which might work, but it would be more inefficient in terms of memory because each train contains a list of values. If I were to add another junction that was east to west but at a different location on the road, then perhaps I could reuse most of my code for creating a junction (just change the y location were cars turn), but if I had to create many different junctions and not all roads were straight, then this would be quite difficult to scale up. If there were more than two roads, this wouldn’t scale up very well because each car factory kept track of the other car factory. I would have to find a different way for each car factory to keep track of other car factories or else every single road would have to keep track of the other roads. Also, if I had to have cars go from west to east on the same road, this would be quite troublesome because I designed the road such that the east road would remove cars from being observed and the west road would add cars to be observed. In addition, I would have to juggle which gates would observe which car if cars had to went west to east.
